Hi everyone. Today is Thursday, May the
28th, and this is the blueprint open.
Taking a look [music] at the ES here, we
can see that we tested a couple of
important lines. So, this looks
dreadfully messy, doesn't it?
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> Let's remove all the rectangles.
Price action is best seen because our 50
is essentially flat.
We've had pivots that are sitting very
close to each other. They're telling us
that we are range bound.
Our VWAP has also been a little bit
flat.
Things look um
Things look
pretty sideways to me. My suspicion from
early in [music] the week that we fill
this gap is still the one I'm looking
at. Here's a low,
right? Here was our first low on
Tuesday.
And then a little bit of lower low, and
a little bit of a lower low the
following day, and then
here we are on Thursday, we've got an
even lower low. So, the lines that we
want to watch
for support are
ultimately all the way down here at
7484, but it's a slow grind. And what we
are doing, it looks like, is we've
gotten a little bit of that correlation
between oil and the markets together
again. And we'll see that. They released
a lot from the SPR,
which is a very bad idea in general.
Um no matter which administration does
it, it's a bad idea.
So, what are we staring down? We're
staring down a market that's really
being aggressively manipulated to hold
support.
It feels
uh
What's the word? Um
a little unstable.
And and so I would imagine volatility
is rising, but let's take a look at the
VIX of the VIX.
Uh-oh. Let's go here. Let's sidetrack us
right here.
No, we are not. It is just falling off a
cliff.
That's bizarre.
That is absolutely bizarre.
Incredible.
Well,
so much for my thoughts on that.
VIX really holding steady
and drifting lower as
it's
Wow. Okay. So, let's move on.
200 simple moving average up.
The other moving averages are flat to
sideways.
Maybe slightly down, but we are seeing a
drift in price. And so this drift in
price should
give us
uh
some understanding of what's going on,
and that is
drifting lower to fill in the regions
below here near 7,500.
That's been a tough trade if
you didn't catch it up at the top
because as it came down, the 200 held it
the first
time it did it yesterday, and it's
recovered at this time this morning.
Sideways pressure.
Top of the range 7,546,
7,560.
Call wall at 7,580.
Put wall still way down here at 7,200.
The zero DTE put wall
is above the price action, and that is
7,540. Remember, they're going to want
to get above this line.
When they get above the line or get
closer to the line, they're going to try
and rotate that down.
We'll see what happens. If it stays
under there, they will aggressively roll
it during the course of the day, but
that will also bring bring prices down.
Essentially, this is mean reversion.
And that's all we can say about that.
So, mean reversion means you
buy the bottom, you sell the top.
And that's what I'm staring down. Now,
could we have a spot at 7535 to do that?
Yes,
we could, but there's 10 points [music]
that we would need to worry about. So, I
would wait, see if it can get into the
demand zone, excuse me, the supply zone
up here, and then do the rotation.
There's a small demand zone building
here between 7522
7522 and 7530.
If I were a betting man, I would say
that we will continue to leak lower.
Let's take a look at the NQ.
Also very messy.
Let's remove all the rectangles.
We've got a Fibonacci here. Wow, that
fib did really well.
That fib did really, really well.
Top of the fib yesterday,
30,345,
right into the 8:30, and then just fell
off a cliff all day, but
it did hold the floor of the formation,
which is right around the close of the
9:30 candle. So,
that's really the line we want to stare
down
today.
Excuse me, the open of the 9:30 candle.
All right. So, are we seeing the same
pattern? Yes.
We have [music] lower highs and lower
lows. Now,
in the grand scheme of things,
we are nowhere near filling the gap like
the ES.
We're still sitting in this pocket that
brings us to What is this number?
29,745.
That's the close of the
Globex half hour
opening candle, 29,774.
So, what are we doing? We're We're under
the 50.
We're above a downward sloping V web,
and we're above the 200. Clear as mud.
That's going to be range-based
formations,
bounces,
or cells, but the bounces could be big.
The call wall is at 30,100.
The put wall,
29,400,
and the zero DTE put wall is
29,700.
So, there's
I mean, they're holding protection down
here because everybody's seeing the same
thing.
Are we in a mean reversion event?
Potentially.
My thought is that we grind through
these edges so that our volume profile,
look at what we're building from a
volume profile perspective on the daily.
This is very thin pockets as opposed to
a tremendous amount of sideways motion
through these months, and now the big
acceleration.
Let's do a Fibonacci here. Let's just
Let's just do a measure.
Wow.
Okay.
What's going on here?
2 2.5
How about 1.5?
There we go.
All right, and so
we're right at that edge where we've got
some Fibonacci. We've got a Fibonacci
marker right in the middle of all of
this noise.
We've got to fill in some of this
volume, but they're fighting right
around here. So, what are we going to
do?
You could buy it right here. You could
say, "Hey, I'm buying 29,900."
What's the risk? Well, the support floor
is probably going to be
29,870.
So, it's a big risk event
if you want to go long. If you want to
go short,
there's also pretty solid risk event
up here
at
30,000,
but it's certainly less than
almost 100 points of risk if you're
trying to go long.
My thought is,
let the dips come in and stabilize.
Whether they stabilize at the 200 area,
that's 29,900,
the 200 simple moving average, or they
stabilize down here,
that would be the better place for the
long because we are in this bit of a
flag pattern.
If we break above,
then the pullback below is going to give
us
if we look above and go, we can look
above, pull back, hold a higher low, and
then accelerate back into
that formation.
Okay, so let's delete this Fibonacci.
Look at all the volume that came in on
this
candle that we had from yesterday.
All right, big candlestick formation at
9:30.
And we're sitting right there at the
support zones. This has held pretty
well. Not not great, but not bad.
The bigger one is really the one we want
to keep an eye on, and that's the one
we're staring down right here, 29,000
29,735.
So, dips are buys, ideally
around the 29,700
area.
Bounces are sells
around 30,133,
and then just manage your risk.
Okay, let's take a look at the YM.
YM
pretty sideways yesterday, but still
not not bad from a volume perspective in
terms of motion.
Big volume candles
yesterday.
All all across the board, that opening
candlestick formation was very
aggressive volume.
You wonder why.
But, we are within range, within value.
200 is up.
50 is up. Although it's had a pretty
savage dip. It's now up right now in the
near term.
VWAP flat.
We're in the value area for the last
couple of days.
We are underneath the pivot, underneath
the anchored VWAP.
And we really are still making lower
highs, although we're making higher
lows. And so, my thought is still this
is a dip buy formation.
I would say 50,600.
Great place to look for if it doesn't
hold, then we've got the fade down a
couple of hundred points.
I don't see any near-term volatility. On
the rise, it's just very sideways choppy
motion. So, wait for the edges
or you're going to get
put in
you know, the spin cycle.
Unfortunately.
The same levels are holding from
yesterday. 50,881,
50,944
for the upside pressure. Let's take a
look at micro Bitcoin.
See,
this is my liquidity measure. You guys
know this.
This
is the measure that I would normally
look at and say, "You know what? I
am going
to look for shorts."
It hasn't really worked out that well in
the broad market,
but it is clear that we have got a
sell-off in
crypto once again.
So,
we're still looking at
the big candle motion
from the 26th.
Seems to be walking through a lot of
these. We've got some support
and demand at 72,600,
but this steepness
is
significant.
Now, what's happening with momentum?
So, momentum was very [music] steep down
here, and it's moving in tandem with
price.
What's going to happen at the Vwap?
They're going to try and sell it again.
Why? Cuz it's a downward Vwap. It's a
downward sloping Vwap. So, if they pull
back, but they can hold 73,000,
there's a potential buy zone here.
Right? So, that would be the zone you'd
want to watch for it to hold. If it does
not hold 73,000, 100, there's a lot more
price action
to move down. Right?
A lot more.
Okay.
Yikes. That's I mean, that's a really
nice short.
Really nice short, the failure to stay
above 75,780,
and then the fade at every test of the
VWAP, that's, you know, textbook
rollover. Holding this edge,
see momentum drifting all the way down
here. If we hold the edge and momentum
begins to
get back above zero,
we've got ourselves a shot at trading
the inverse here into 75,000. But,
[music] as it sits now,
that looks pretty bad.
Let's take a look at oil.
All right. So, oil's down, market's up.
I said yesterday, that looks like news,
but I didn't know what the news was. And
now I know.
SPR release. That's just
Again, you know, I think it's a very bad
thing that we're we're doing there, and
it's really just to try and keep oil
down. But, the only way we can get
[music] oil down
is to put an end to traffic disruption,
and
there's no end to that in sight, my
[music] friends. So, as you know, I
believe 85 is the relative floor for
this. If it fades, it will be quickly
bought back up.
Um
So, what are we seeing today?
Well, we've got um momentum that's
pretty jaggedly bullish. It's up above
zero.
Um, but not dramatically so. So, what is
my thought? As I mentioned yesterday,
bounces into the 200 simple moving
average going to give you
that relative resistance area.
But,
we really didn't get it yesterday.
[music] We just stayed under the 50.
Now, we're bouncing into this area near
the 200. We're making higher lows.
Also, momentum is up. So,
if you like these trend line kind of
things, you want to make sure that we
don't lose 89.65
if you want to be long.
It's not a good idea to be long
under 89.65
unless your pockets are very deep,
[music] right? And we know the market's
being
uh aggressively
managed in order [music]
to keep uh oil prices
somewhat stable. Okay?
I'm not sure if we've had any
skirmishes.
We probably have. Um, you know, I don't
I don't know what to say there. I really
don't. Upper edges of motion, 92.87 to
94.75,
at which point
I suspect that that's a short as well.
If it can come into that 92, it'll be
very nice short.
All right. Let's take a look at gold.
Fading pretty savagely.
Which, you know, this is my thought.
It's my thought that we're going to
continue to move down. Let's see
what our 4-hour formation is telling us.
We've got
demand
at around 4374.
They're trying to front run that right
now.
And [music]
then below that,
we've got
4306.
Trend down.
Momentum down, certainly for the 4-hour.
Let's look at the 30-minute formations
and see what we have. We are under the
put walls, both the big put wall and the
zero DTE put wall. We are sitting
underneath them, 44 85
on the big put wall. The zero DTE is
4441.
They really want to get to that,
but they're having trouble.
We're also underneath the anchored V web
and the pivot.
So, a lot of negative traction here.
That being said, we've got
divergent momentum. And so, divergent
momentum suggests that we're going to
try and find resistance.
And that could be all the way up at
the anchored V web from the prior day,
which is 4458.
Right?
Could we stop shy
at 4420? Yes.
Maybe even
uh
44 30? Yes. But my
my thought is they are really going to
try and put the
put the pedal to the metal here and get
us up through at least one of these put
walls. If not, we're going to have more
aggressive selling
until they rotate that wall down.
[music]
Which will be the next thing they will
do, the call wall way up here at 4680.
Bounces or sells.
All right, let's go to spy.
Okay, spy is sitting right in the middle
of the value area.
Here's our trend line test
at
749.
Um I do expect us to break the trend
line because I expect us to fill the
gap.
The put wall, the zero DTE put wall is
745.
The big put wall is 700.
And of course these numbers rotate very
quickly intraday, right? So if you're
all about these walls, they can change
that which is why, you know, you
if you're really into that, you need to
hang out with MethodR Q.
So, here is that
edge, the first edge that I think we
ought to come into and we actually
have had a couple of wicks go down into
that zone to get bought up, but I think
we see another fade.
It looks weaker to me. [music]
We are under the 50, under the VWeb,
under the pivot, under the
um
anchored VWeb. And this suggests to me
that
we've got drift [snorts] slower. That
being said, there's a big demand zone
all the way to 748.
740, 745 is where they went to.
>> [music]
>> Let's see why.
It's 9:30.
Yes, the [music] 9:30 close of the 9:30
candle close is that wick
right there.
Hmm.
So that could be the floor for today.
My thought is that a slow dribbly awful
grind is ahead. We've got [music]
this kind of price action waiting.
We're just caught in a
pit bog of noise right now. So we're
just drifting into the edges. So could
it be that we get to 745? Yes, we're
going to have buyers there. They're just
going to sit around about the 200 isn't
all the 200 is all the way down here at
743. So we're going to have to see some
real drift for that to happen. Or we're
just going to go sideways for a while
and then that's going to change the
price pattern. [music] That's what I
think that we're looking for. Look for
the dips to give you the buying
pressure. Don't buy in the middle of the
noise. Buy on the edges of the noise.
That's going to help you out a lot
better. Right? Sell on the edges [music]
of the noise.
Whatever way you think price action's
going to go, look at momentum.
It's continually drifting to the south.
And there's, you know, I mean
they could drift down quite a bit
further. So there's plenty of room for
downside action.
But buyers are going to be at the at the
ready. Okay?
All right, folks. That's it for me.
I'll see you on Topstep TV today, group
coaching. And um
take care.
Remember,
please hit like and subscribe for me.
Thank you so much.
Okay.
Let's go.